The game that I want to create is a 2D platformer fighter with elements of resource gathering and crafting. The goal is to have the fighting concept be fully fleshed out with the movement being the focus of the game, as that will impact both the fighting phase as well as the resource gathering phase 

For gameplay, there will be three different “phases” to each round. The first phase will be the gathering phase, where both players go throughout the map in search of different materials to gather to craft gear and upgrades. This will be a timed segment to incentivize the players to rush towards getting as many materials as possible. After the timer expires, they will then go into the crafting phase, where they spend their resources on getting new equipment, upgrades to their current equipment or characters, or spend them on expensive but rare upgrades to their characters. Any resources that they have not spent will be stockpiled onto their character, leading into the next and final phase of the round. In the fighting phase, the players merge into one map and fight each other until their HP reaches 0. Afterwards, the winner takes 10% of the remaining resources that the loser of the round had (number will be tinkered with depending on how balanced this mechanic will be) and the round will be over. The process will repeat until one of the players has won the best of three. 

Elements such as the phases, gathering, and what can be crafted may be changed throughout the process of creating this game. The phases may be switched to a different order depending on how the mechanic for taking resources works and the players may be merged into a single map for resource gathering if it is deemed easier, depending on how hard it is to do modular split screen similar to the newer generation of LEGO video games.
 

I am confident in the movement of the characters as I have done many different instances of vector-based movement with acceleration and deceleration, where I believe that I will struggle is both in the balancing aspect of the game as well as how to have hit scan by frame of the animation, as I have never done animation trees before but have an idea on how I can implement this mechanic. I also have not dealt with split screen mechanics so that will become a new horizon for me.
